There's basically a few key aspects of cryptocurrencies to figure out if you want to transition to mostly cryptocurrencies, or crypto, for your daily life.  The first aspect is importing your money into the cryptocurrency economy as efficiently as possible.  The second aspect is portfolio management, where you decide how to minimize risk while accumulating cryptocurrencies.  The third aspect is spending cryptocurrencies in a fiat world.  Much of the world is still fiat based, so going back to the legacy systems is something that most will have to deal with for the time being.
Importing money into cryptocurrency economy.
Ideally, you could have your employer pay you in cryptocurrency, but in most cases you will need to import your government money into an exchange.  Some exchanges will not charge fees for stablecoin purchases, which makes importing your money into the cryptocurrency economy very cost efficient.  Coinbase does this for USDC coin, from a bank account.

For people that have direct deposit, there's some services that will convert a direct deposit to your specified cryptocurrency.  You will set up your direct deposit account with your employer just like a normal bank account.  Services such as Bitwage, will accept a direct deposit, just like a normal bank account, and then convert the direct deposit to crypto.  The advantage of using a service like Bitwage is that your money skips the personal bank account and goes straight to cryptocurrency.  Governments are raising taxes, or extortion fees, all the time; so if you get behind on taxes they can confiscate your bank accounts.  If you're not worried about bank account seizures and such, it can be easier to just set an automatic  cryptocurrency purchase or a recurring reminder on your calendar.
Another way to import your fiat, is to use a credit or debit card.  Generally it's more expensive to enter the cryptocurrency economy this way, but some cards have the rewards. Also, when buying with a card the cryptocurrency is usually available to trade immediately, which can be advantageous during times of volatile prices.  Sometimes when utilizing bank accounts, the cryptocurrency won't be available for a few days or weeks.  If buying with a card, buy during price dips.  If the price of your desired cryptocurrency is spiking, just buy the stablecoin and set a price alert to tell you when the price of the desired crypto is at a more reasonable buying price.  There are many apps that have price alerts, it might be wise to download a few of the apps to see which alerts work best.  The Coinbase app does a pretty good job with price alerts.
Portfolio management.
When investing in crypto you need to make some decisions on which cryptocurrencies to acquire.  I recommend specifying your portfolio in percentages, that way you don't have too much risk in on or two assets.  For example if you're investing in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Monero, you will want to analyze how much volatility you are comfortable with in your portfolio, and then decide on your percentages.  Sometimes adjusting your portfolio percentages based on how confident you are in the price maintaining its current level is useful.  

After one particular part of a portfolio has a price spike, it can be beneficial to distribute half of the recent gains to the rest of the portfolio to minimize any losses if the price spike reverses.  A quick price history analysis can reveal how much a price retraces after normal price spikes, using previous price spikes is a good guide to how the price will react in the future.  Also, another good rule of thumb is to take 10% profit after every price doubling.  For example if you bought $1000 worth of ETH at $200/ETH, then when ETH hits $400, which makes your initial purchase of $1000 worth $2000, you just sell $200 (10%) worth of ETH, to stablecoin or any other of your portfolio assets that seems to be a good value at the time.  
With Tokensets you can automate your portfolio to automatically capture profits and minimize losses.  Tokensets can be a very useful tool for your portfolio management strategy.
Spending cryptocurrencies in the fiat world.
Spending cryptocurrencies or  crypto in a fiat world is pretty important if you want to live on crypto because a lot of services only accept fiat, but as crypto becomes more mainstream this step will become less and less important.  
For bills such as phone bills that are the same price monthly, it can be advantageous to buy these gift cards during crypto price spikes, to maximize your purchasing power.
One of the most useful ways to spend crypto  is by using the crypto debit card apps.  Instead of buying a bunch of different gift cards with crypto, the crypto debit card app is basically a gift card for every store that accepts debit cards.  Sometimes these apps require you to sell your crypto before spending via the debit card, but some conveniently allow you to sell the instant that you use your debit card. 
Conclusion
By taking more control of your financial future through using cryptocurrencies, you can profit and have more freedom to use your money without the risks involved with banks and the out-of-control inflation of fiat. 
