An observation from the recent elections is that there is usually around 50% of the population that disapproves of the job that the government is doing, yet most people still use government money, or fiat for the laymen.  By using the money that the government creates out of thin air, you're giving power to the government.  By saving in money that is only backed by the confidence in government, then you're putting your finances at unnecessary risk.  With government money, the government can decide when they want to dilute the purchasing power of all the rest of the government money.  

In cryptocurrency there's an exit strategy from the government money problem.  By saving in currencies such as Ethereum and Bitcoin, you're giving the government less power over the purchasing power of your savings, because the monetary policy is programmed and more predictable.

In addition to the very inflationary monetary policy of government money, the banking system's fractional reserve aspect instantly dilutes any deposits that you put into a bank.  Nowadays many of the reserve requirements are actually zero, so the purchasing power of peoples' savings in the government money is getting diluted much quicker than ever.  In effect the increase in money supply of government money has no limits.

If you want to start converting your politically charged government money to something more logical, then start cost averaging into a few cryptocurrencies every week or so.  By cost averaging every week you will limit your losses and from my experience your yearly profit from cost averaging will be far superior to any bank account.  

When you first start your crypto savings you will just accumulate and not really use your money for your daily finances, but after you start profiting from a few price spikes, the crypto part of your savings may become a larger part of your daily finances.  

For people that are new to cryptocurrencies, using a crypto bank, or a centralized service can make the first cryptocurrency experience easier due to the outsourcing of risk and the speed of the applications because you're not actually doing real cryptocurrency transactions.  To experience the real advantage of cryptocurrencies though, is to use cryptocurrencies in their native environment without having to trust the centralized service does, what you want it to do.
  
In the crypto landscape, there are centralized services and decentralized services.  Generally centralized services can be easier to use, quicker,  and have a better user experience due to the off-chain nature of the services.  If you wonder if a service is centralized or decentralized, you can usually tell by the requirement to verify your identity.  One of the problems with centralized services is that they can get shutdown, hacked, and your assets could be easily confiscated , if you get in trouble with the law or get sued.  One advantage of centralized services is that there is usually pretty good insurance for hacks and such.  For people that are new to crypto, centralized services can be a good way to start out, due to risk management being outsourced to the centralized service.

Decentralized services are rapidly evolving, and can provide services to anyone with an internet connection, which is nice for people that don't have access to banking services due to nationality, criminal history, or a plethora of other reasons. Decentralized services don't usually require identity verification, and offer the advantage of not being connected to an official identity.  The uptime for blockchain services is generally superior to non-blockchain services, but there is smart contract hack risk.  Risk can be minimized by minimizing exposure to smart contract risk by using insurance or keeping assets that aren't immediately needed in cold storage.  Decentralized services require a higher level of responsibility of the user because they are responsible for the safe keeping of the funds. 

In the beginning you will want to start with a lower amount of currency to minimize damages.  There's something about learning stuff and making mistakes that can cost money.  These costly mistakes are referred to as learning taxes.  I'd recommend a similar amount of money that you'd spend on crypto in a month without worrying about losing it.  
